 bdes.txt

@PURPOSE: Provide system-level utilities FOR BDE LIBRARY USE.

@MNEMONIC: Basic Development Environment System-level utilities (bdes)

@AUTHOR: Herve Bronnimann (hbronnim)

@DESCRIPTION: The 'bdes' package provides a variety of system utilities
 for use by the BDE library (many of which have been deprecated in favor of
 equivalent 'bsls' components).  These utilities include:
..
  1. Bit utilities, such as finding a 1-bit or 0-bit at a particular
     location, setting a 1-bit or 0-bit, and various mask operations.
  2. Various buffer types with different alignment properties.
  3. Uniform exception handling, even for non-exception build targets.
  4. A platform-dependent 64-bit integer type.
  5. Platform-identification routines.
  6. A timer component, and access to system time facilities.
..
 Note that this list is not meant to be exhaustive.  The sections below provide
 more information about the individual components.

/Hierarchical Synopsis
/---------------------
 'bdes' currently has 17 components having 4 levels of physical dependency.
 The table below shows the hierarchical ordering of the components.  The
 package prefix and underscore ('bdes_') are omitted from the full component
 names for layout efficiency.
..
  Level 4: stopwatch

  Level 3: platformutil

  Level 2: bitutil      int64     objectbuffer   timeutil

  Level 1: alignment    assert    platform
..

/Component Synopsis
/------------------
 The following is a brief synopsis of the components in 'bdes'.  For the sake
 of brevity, we sometimes blur the distinction between a component and the
 primary types that the component provides.  We remind the reader that, in
 general, the distinction between a component and a class is important.
..
  'bdes_alignment'     - platform-specific alignment information.
  'bdes_assert'        - macros and mechanisms for user-defined "asserts".
  'bdes_bitutil'       - efficient bit-level operations on integers ('int').
  'bdes_int64'         - platform-dependent 64-bit integer types.
  'bdes_objectbuffer'  - raw buffer with size and alignment of user-specified
                         parameterized type.
  'bdes_platform'      - preprocessor support for platform identification.
  'bdes_platformutil'  - Encapsulate platform-dependent operations behind
                         a stable interface.
  'bdes_stopwatch'     - a simple real-time interval timer.
  'bdes_timeutil'      - a platform-neutral interface to system clocks.
..

@Component Overview:

 This Overview section summarizes the components that are available in 'bdes'.

/'bdes_alignment'
/----------------
 This component computes (at compile-time) platform-dependent alignment
 information.  This component also provides a namespace for a suite of
 compile-time constants and pure procedures that yield platform-dependent
 alignment information for primitive and user-defined types, including the
 maximum alignment for any type and the smallest fundamental type requiring
 maximum alignment.  These functions, used in conjunction, are especially
 useful for creating pools and allocators that rely on efficient alignment.

/'bdes_assert'
/-------------
 This component provides a pair of "assert-like" macros to implement a
 compile-time-selectable and run-time-configurable "defensive" or "safe" mode.
 It also provides a suite of "assert-failure handler" methods suitable for
 runtime loading into the macros, via also provided methods.  Users may supply
 their own handler methods matching the proper signature.  To allow the user
 more flexibility in changing handlers during program execution, this component
 also provides a scoped guard that allows safe, temporary changing of the
 failure handler in a limited scope.

/'bdes_bitutil'
/--------------
 This component provides a suite of pure procedures supporting binary-digit
 (bit) manipulation on the native integer ('int') type, such as finding a 1-bit
 or 0-bit at a particular location (e.g., least-significant or most-significant
 bit position), setting a 1-bit or 0-bit, and various mask operations.

/'bdes_int64'
/------------
 This component provides platform-independent type names for both signed and
 unsigned 64-bit integers.  For healthy platforms, the component simply
 provides a BDE-standard 'typedef' for the non-standard native type name.  All
 platforms currently supported are healthy regarding 64-bit integers.

/'bdes_objectbuffer'
/-------------------
 This component provides a templated buffer type, 'bdes_ObjectBuffer', which is
 compile-time sized and aligned to hold a specified object type.  Defining a
 'bdes_ObjectBuffer<T>' object does not cause the constructor for 'T' to be
 called.  Similarly, destroying the object buffer does not call the destructor
 for 'T'.  Typically, a 'bdes_ObjectBuffer' is used in situations where
 efficient (e.g., stack-based) storage is required but where straightforward
 initialization or destruction of an object is not possible.  It can also be
 used to create a 'union' containing non-POD element types.

/'bdes_platform'
/---------------
 This component defines preprocessor macros that identify and
 describe platform-specific attributes (at compile time).  These attributes
 consist of the types and versions of operating system, processor(s), and
 compiler that comprise the platform.

/'bdes_platformutil'
/-------------------
 This component provides a namespace for a collection of typedefs and pure
 procedures that would otherwise have platform-dependent interfaces.  For
 example, it defines the preferred fundamental types denoting signed and
 unsigned 64-bit integers,  the preferred integral type denoting a number of
 elements in allocators and containers, provides the capability of determining
 whether a machine is big or little endian across all supported platforms, and
 defines a set of macros replacing the standard 'htonl', 'htons', 'ntohl', and
 'ntohs' which do not require including any system header.

/'bdes_stopwatch'
/----------------
 This component implements a real-time (system clock) interval timer.  A
 'bdes_Stopwatch' object can accumulate and return only one interval at a time,
 but may be started and stopped repeatedly without being reset, so the elapsed
 time "interval" accumulated by a single object may be from multiple,
 discontinuous segments of time.  The non-negative total accumulated time (in
 seconds) is available as a 'double' value.

/'bdes_timeutil'
/---------------
 This component provides a set of platform-neutral pure procedures to access
 real-time system clock functionality.  High-resolution time functions intended
 for interval-timing return an interval in nanoseconds (1 nsec = 1E-9 sec) as a
 64-bit integer.

@Usage Examples

 This package provides disparate functionality close to the system layer.
 There is no natural usage example for the entire package.  It is best to refer
 to the usage example for each individual component.
