 bae.txt

@PURPOSE: Provide application-level support services.

@MNEMONIC: Basic Application Environment (bae)

@AUTHOR: Tom Marshall (tmarshal)

@DESCRIPTION: The 'bae' ("Basic Applications Environment") package group
 contains at present one package (beyond the required 'baescm' source
 management versioning package -- see 'bdescm' for a general discussion of
 version control).  That package, 'bael', provides a logging toolkit suitable
 for deployment in all production environments.

/Hierarchical Synopsis
/---------------------
 The 'bae' package group currently has 13 packages having 5 levels of physical
 dependency.  The list below shows the hierarchical ordering of the packages.
 The order of packages within each level is not architecturally significant,
 just alphabetical.
..
  5. baejsn

  4. baea

  3. baecs
     baelu
     baem
     baetzo

  2. baedb
     bael
     baenet
     baesu
     baet
     baexml

  1. baescm
..

/Package Synopsis
/----------------
: 'baea':
:      Provide common application-level facilities.
:
: 'baecs':
:      Provide special-purpose application-level containers.
:
: 'baedb':
:      [DEPRECATED] Provide a protocol to access a Bloomberg user database.
:
: 'baejsn':
:      Provide components for encoding/decoding in the JSON format.
:
: 'bael':
:      Provide thread-safe logging toolkit suitable for all platforms.
:
: 'baelu':
:      Provide non-primitive utilities for logging.
:
: 'baem':
:      Provide thread-safe collection and publishing of metrics.
:
: 'baenet':
:      Provide utilities components to perform HTTP communication.
:
: 'baescm':
:      Provide versioning information for library components in 'bae'
:
: 'baesu':
:      Provide a portable facility for obtaining & printing a stack trace
:
: 'baet':
:      Provide value-semantic vocabulary types (including time types).
:
: 'baetzo':
:      Provide timezone data for use with timezone-enabled vocabulary types.
:
: 'baexml':
:      Provide utility components for using XML and XSD.

/Package Overview
/----------------
 The following provides a brief overview of some of the 'bae' packages.  See
 the respective Package Level documents for more details and usage examples.

/bael
/- -
 {'bael'} provides a logging toolkit that, in turn, provides administerable,
 customizable logging facilities for libraries and applications.  The logging
 toolkit is thread-enabled, and thus suitable for multi-threaded applications.
 'bael' provides the capability to log to an in-memory buffer or directly to an
 "Observer" object that is itself user-customizable.  The logger understands
 the concepts of logging to a "category" at a "severity level".  Specific
 logger behavior (e.g., disabled logging or "publishing" the in-memory buffer)
 is governed by various "threshold levels" for a given message severity level,
 for each category.  These thresholds may be administered dynamically, i.e.,
 while the process is running.

/baescm
/- - -
 {'baescm'} is a special source control management package containing a single
 component, 'baescm_version'.  This component is included by every other
 component in 'bae', and provides versioning information for the package group.
 Users may use the 'baescm_version' facilities to query a particular 'bae'
 library for its version information.
