 bdeat.txt

@PURPOSE: Provide generic functions to manipulate attribute types

@MNEMONIC: Basic Development Environment ATtribute types (bdeat)

@AUTHOR: Shezan Baig (sbaig)

@DESCRIPTION: The 'bdeat' package provides generic functions to work with the
 different concepts of attribute types.  These concepts group common behaviors
 ("array", "choice", "enumeration", "nullable", "selection", "sequence", or
 "value type").  Once a type is made a model of one of these concepts, it can
 be used seamlessly by generic code such as the xml/ber encoders and decoders.
 Therefore, whenever a new type needs to be encodable, the codecs themselves do
 not need to be modified, but the type just needs to implement the necessary
 functions to expose the concept.

 Types generated by 'bas_codegen.pl' are all models of one or more of these
 concepts.  However, users can also model their own types after one or more of
 these concepts.  See 'bcem_aggregate' for an example of a user-defined type
 that models all these concepts dynamically.

/Hierarchical Synopsis
/---------------------
 'bdeat' currently has 14 components having 5 levels of physical dependency.
 The table below shows the hierarchical ordering of the components.  The
 package prefix and underscore ('bdeat_') are omitted from the full component
 names for layout efficiency.
..
  Level  6: symbolicconverter

  Level  5: valuetypefunctions

  Level  4: typecategory

  Level  3: customizedtypefunctions

  Level  2: arrayfunctions             choicefunctions       enumfunctions
            sequencefunctions

  Level  1: attributeinfo              enumeratorinfo        formattingmode
            nullablevaluefunctions     selectioninfo         typetraits
..

/Component Synopsis
/------------------
 The following is a brief synopsis of the components in 'bdeat'.  For the sake
 of brevity, we sometimes blur the distinction between a component and the
 primary types that the component provides.  We remind the reader that, in
 general, the distinction between a component and a class is important.
..
  'bdeat_arrayfunctions'     - Provide a namespace defining array functions.

  'bdeat_arrayiterators'     - Provide iterator support for array types.

  'bdeat_attributeinfo'      - Provide a container for attribute information.

  'bdeat_choicefunctions'    - Provide a namespace defining choice functions.

  'bdeat_customizedtypefunctions' - Provide a namespace defining customized
                                    type functions.

  'bdeat_enumeratorinfo'     - Provide a container for enumerator information.

  'bdeat_enumfunctions'      - Provide a namespace defining enumeration
                               functions.

  'bdeat_formattingmode'     - Provide formatting mode constants.

  'bdeat_nullablevaluefunctions' - Provide a namespace defining nullable value
                                   functions.

  'bdeat_selectioninfo'      - Provide a container for selection information.

  'bdeat_sequencefunctions'  - Provide a namespace defining sequence functions.

  'bdeat_symbolicconverter'  - Provide a utility for converting types with
                               matching member symbols.

  'bdeat_typecategory'       - Provide type category tags and a tag selection
                               meta-function.

  'bdeat_typetraits'         - Provide compile-time traits for generated types.

  'bdeat_valuetypefunctions' - Provide a namespace for functions on value
                               types.
..
