 bdefu.txt

@PURPOSE: [DEPRECATED] factory methods for populating void function objects.

@DEPRECATED: Use 'bdef_function' and 'bdef_bind' instead.

@MNEMONIC: Basic Development Environment Functor Utilities (bdefu)

@COMPONENTS
   bdefu_vfunc0: namespace for factory methods loading no-arg void functors
   bdefu_vfunc1: namespace for factory methods loading 1-arg void functors
   bdefu_vfunc2: namespace for factory methods loading 2-arg void functors
   bdefu_vfunc3: namespace for factory methods loading 3-arg void functors
   bdefu_vfunc4: namespace for factory methods loading 4-arg void functors
   bdefu_vfunc5: namespace for factory methods loading 5-arg void functors
   bdefu_vfunc6: namespace for factory methods loading 6-arg void functors

@AUTHOR: John Lakos (jlakos)

@DESCRIPTION: THIS PACKAGE IS *DEPRECATED*.  These components contain a suite
 of template functions used to configure an existing function object (functor)
 characterized by a function-call operator taking zero to nine arguments and
 returning void.  Each component is used in conjunction with the corresponding
 'bdef' component.

 Four families of populators are supported in each component.
..
   bdefu_Vfunc*::makeF:    Initialize the functor by embedding a function
                           (or another functor) and any additional trailing
                           arguments.

   bdefu_Vfunc*::makeC:    Initialize the functor by embedding an object, one
                           of that object's 'const' methods, and any
                           additional trailing arguments for that method.

   bdefu_Vfunc*::makeM:    Initialize the functor by embedding THE ADDRESS OF
                           an object, one of that object's ('const' or
                           non-'const') methods, and any additional trailing
                           argments for that method.  Note that it is the
                           client's responsibility to ensure that the object
                           remains valid throughout the productive lifetime
                           of a functor object configured in this way.

   bdefu_Vfunc*::makeNull: Initialize the functor with an empty function.
..
 In each of the first three cases, the underlying procedure (i.e., function,
 functor, or method) will have parameters matching those of the host
 functor's function-call operator), and may also have additional parameters,
 whose arguments are specified when the host functor is configured.  Currently,
 underlying procedures with up to nine parameters are supported.

 Note that the argument types are converted to match parameter types at
 functor invocation (and not at initialization); This delayed conversion
 allows for greater flexibility in chosing mandatory function parameter
 types.  The conversion will take place every time the functor is invoked;
 therefore, functors where argument types match exactly will operate more
 efficiently.

 Each function comes in two flavors: one that requires the user to specify a
 memory allocator, and one that uses default operators 'new' and 'delete'.
 In the version that requires an allocator, the address of the allocator is
 the first argument specified.
