 bdefi.txt

@PURPOSE: [DEPRECATED] concrete representations for void function objects.

@DEPRECATED: Use 'bdef_function' and 'bdef_bind' instead.

@MNEMONIC: Basic Development Environment Functor Implementations (bdefi)

@COMPONENTS:
   bdefi_vfunc0: reference-counted functor representations with no arguments
   bdefi_vfunc1: reference-counted functor representations with 1 argument
   bdefi_vfunc2: reference-counted functor representations with 2 arguments
   bdefi_vfunc3: reference-counted functor representations with 3 arguments
   bdefi_vfunc4: reference-counted functor representations with 4 arguments
   bdefi_vfunc5: reference-counted functor representations with 5 arguments
   bdefi_vfunc6: reference-counted functor representations with 6 arguments

@AUTHOR: David Laurance (dlauranc)

@DESCRIPTION: THIS PACKAGE IS *DEPRECATED*.  This package defines a suite of
 classes that implement the internal representations of the 'bdef_Vfunc*'
 families of function objects (functors).  Each class implements the
 'execute()' method, whose signature characterizes the particular family of
 functor representations.  Individual classes in each component support various
 types of client functions, with varying types and numbers of arguments, and
 bind those functions to 'bdef' functors.

 Client functions may be free functions or member functions for some client
 class. Member functions may be declared 'const' or non-'const'.  Different
 classes in each component correspond to these various options, and a client
 chooses a specific class that matches the client function signature through a
 simple naming scheme.  For example, if a client wishes to create a 2-argument
 functor, package 'bdefi_vfunc2' is used.  If the client function is a member
 function, a class name beginning with 'bdefi_vfunc2M' will be chosen, and
 then, if the client member function has 3 arguments, the class name will be
 completed as 'bdefi_vfunc2M3'.

 Clients may thus load a given 'bdefi' functor with their own free or member
 function that requires more than the given number of arguments.  The
 additional arguments are bound to specific pre-defined values by an
 appropriate function in the 'bdefu' package.  See that package for additional
 information.

 The counter used by all classes defined in these components is atomic,
 thereby providing thread-safe increment and decrement operations.  The classes
 also provides static 'deleteObject' methods to allow clients to destroy the
 object (when the count reaches '0') without any information about the details
 of the 'bdefi_Vfunc*' object memory management scheme.  Note that the object
 must be allocated dynamically using the same allocator supplied at
 construction and that the allocator must remain valid through the life of the
 object.  The 'deleteObject' method allows concrete classes derived from
 'bdefi_Vfunc*' to declare their destructors 'private' and limit object
 instantiation to the heap.

/USAGE
/-----
 Most clients will not use 'bdefr' or 'bdefi' classes directly; rather, they
 will create 'bdef' functors, and populate them with utility functions from the
 'bdefu' package.  See the package documentation for package 'bdef' for
 examples that illustrate this usage.

 In order to understand in detail how the 'bdefi' components and classes work,
 refer to the usage example in Component 'bdefi_vfunc2'.
