 bdepu.txt

@PURPOSE: Provide parsing routines for fundamental and other low-level types.

@MNEMONIC: Basic Development Environmnent Parsing Utilities (bdepu)

@AUTHOR: Lea Fester (lfester)

@DESCRIPTION: The 'bdepu' package provides several sets of pure procedures
 (i.e., utility functions) that convert text representations to objects of
 fundamental or basic BDE types ("parser" utilities), and that convert objects
 to text ("generator" utilities).  In addition, there are sets of lower-level
 utilities whose main purpose is to facilitate the implementation of the
 higher-level parsers.

 'bdepu' provides three general types of parsing routines for low-level types.
 These include 'parse*' routines, which extract particular types from a
 character sequence (or indicate inability to do so); 'generate*' routines,
 which output character sequences representing the value of some low-level
 type; and 'skip' routines, which bypass some character sequence within a
 larger stream but do not return a corresponding token or value.

 'bdepu' routines parse, skip, or generate the following types or entities:
..
  1.  C/C++ identifiers.
  2.  The special token NULL.
  3.  Signed and unsigned integers.
  4.  Client-supplied string.
  5.  White space (including C- and C++-style comments).
  6.  Characters (both single-quote delimited and "raw", or undelimited).
  7.  'bdet_Date's, which are dates in YYYY/MM/DD format only.
  8.  'bdet_DateTime' (same restriction applies to the date portion).
  9.  Doubles.
  10. Floats.
  11. Int64 types, representing 64-bit integers.
  12. Shorts
  13. 'bdet_Time's, a time type.
  14. Strings (both double-quote delimited and "raw", or undelimited).
  15. Arrays of (most of) the above types.
..

 There are two or three "levels of service" for each of the parsing routines.
 The most basic level of service looks for a precise match of the requested
 item starting with the first character of the argument buffer.  The next level
 can ignore leading whitespace and then look for a match.  The highest level of
 service also ignores leading whitespace and will parse *either* a value of
 the requested type, or the word NULL, in which case the returned item will
 hold the (BDE-defined) canonical representation of NULL for that type.

 Similar level of service distinctions apply to the generating routines. The
 most basic output only a textual representation of an item's value.  Second-
 level routines can indent output by a client-specified amount, and the highest
 level of services writes a terminating end-of-string (i.e., '\n') after
 outputting the item.

 The procedures providing the lowest level of service are in BDE library
 files 'bdepu_parserimputil.h' and 'bdepu_typesparserimputil.h'.  The second
 level routines are in file 'bdepu_typesparser.h', and the highest level are
 in 'bdepu_ntypesparser.h'.
