 btlsc.txt

@PURPOSE: Provide abstract interfaces for transport channels and factories.

@MNEMONIC: Basic Transport Environment Stream-based Channels (btlsc)

@DESCRIPTION: The 'btlsc' package is designed to provide three parallel
 "families" of protocol (i.e., pure abstract interface) for stream-based
 transport: "channel", "channel allocator", and "(channel) allocator factory".
 These three concepts -- clearly closely related -- provide the desired
 factoring of functionality in the concrete objects that implement these
 protocols.  Note that the allocator factories have not yet been released, but
 because they are such a fundamental part of the conceptual factored design of
 'btlsc' the allocator factories are included in the description in this
 section.

 A "channel" is the abstraction of a single endpoint of a communication
 (transport) mechanism.  A channel object that supports various forms of "read"
 and "write" methods, and very little additional functionality.  The intended
 design analogy is to a telephone handset.  One can talk and listen, but
 (almost) all details regarding the transport process itself have been
 abstracted away.  Such matters are of no concern to a channel -- or, more
 importantly, to a channel *user*.

 A "channel allocator" is a dispenser of channel objects.  When a client
 allocates a channel from a channel allocator, the allocator has seen to it
 that the channel is properly configured and ready for use (whatever that might
 mean in a specific implementation).  Still, the channel allocator only
 dispenses one "kind" of channel, i.e., a connection to one specific entity.
 Details of with whom one is communicating have been (profitably) abstracted
 away.  These matters are not the concern of the channel allocator.

 An "allocator factory" is a dispenser of channel allocator objects.  In BDE,
 the terms "allocator" and "factory" are synonymous, but we use the two
 different words for clarity and to avoid any unintentional humor that the
 reduplicative "allocator allocator" might evoke.  The initial "channel",
 logically a part of the name of this entity, has also been omitted for brevity
 and clarity.  An "allocator factory" is basically a naming service that
 provides a channel allocator in response to a request for a connection to a
 specific entity.

 This factoring allows client designers using concrete objects derived from
 'btlsc' protocols to provide clear and simple objects whose functionality is
 well defined and easy to use at each level of the design.

/Specific Functionality in the Protocol Contracts
/------------------------------------------------
 For each of the three entities described above, channels, channel allocators,
 and allocator factories, there exist specific protocols to support blocking
 and non-blocking objects, and objects that do and do not support timeout
 capability.  To facilitate good design and usage in the concrete
 implementations, each "timed" entity is derived from its "untimed"
 counterpart.

/Hierarchical Synopsis
/---------------------
 The 'btlsc' package currently has 9 components having 4 levels of physical
 dependency.  The list below shows the hierarchical ordering of the components.
 The order of components within each level is not architecturally significant,
 just alphabetical.
..
  4. btlsc_cbchannelallocator
     btlsc_channelallocator
     btlsc_timedcbchannelallocator
     btlsc_timedchannelallocator

  3. btlsc_timedcbchannel
     btlsc_timedchannel

  2. btlsc_cbchannel
     btlsc_channel

  1. btlsc_flag
..

/Component Synopsis
/------------------
: 'btlsc_cbchannel':
:      Provide a protocol for stream-based data communication.
:
: 'btlsc_cbchannelallocator':
:      Provide protocol for non-blocking stream-based channel allocators.
:
: 'btlsc_channel':
:      Provide a protocol for synchronous stream-based communication.
:
: 'btlsc_channelallocator':
:      Provide protocol for blocking stream-based channel allocators.
:
: 'btlsc_flag':
:      Enumerate all flags for stream-based-channel transport.
:
: 'btlsc_timedcbchannel':
:      Provide protocol for stream-based data communication with timeout.
:
: 'btlsc_timedcbchannelallocator':
:      Provide protocol for stream-based channel allocators with timeout.
:
: 'btlsc_timedchannel':
:      Provide a protocol for stream-based communication with a timeout.
:
: 'btlsc_timedchannelallocator':
:      Provide protocol for stream-based channel allocators with timeout.
